I think you'll agree with me that
smartphones are sneaky beasts they live
a secretive life full of things you
might not know for example they have a
radio built into them that gasp can't be
turned on hey I got a smartphone that
likes to play hide and seek with me I
never find it where I put it down or
where I thought I put it down anyway
let's take a sneak peek at what is known
about this mysterious creature one why
our smartphone so big ever since they
appeared in 2007 no keyboard smartphones
have been growing steadily bigger
currently the largest smartphone doesn't
even fit into your palm properly
spanning 7.3 inches that and it's also
folding bringing back memories of old
flip phones these giants of the mobile
world are called phablets a mix of
phones and tablets the reason for this
growth is that smartphones are becoming
our primary computing devices pushing
aside pcs and laptops the mobile
internet connection is getting faster
picture quality is getting better so now
we can do all the stuff we need on our
phones and that calls for bigger screens
that would allow more work with checks
more easily edit images and videos and
much more - can you get a shot using a
charging smart phone while charging your
phone is connected to the grid so
naturally you'd be concerned about a
chance of getting electrocuted
don't fret though unless you're using a
counterfeit charging device you're 100%
safe the charger transforms the AC or
alternating current in the grid to
direct current or DC which is much
weaker and can't cause any serious
damage but if there's some problem with
the chargers insulation the AC might get
into the DC part of the circuit so when
you touch it you might receive a hefty
shock so it's best to use only original
chargers
[Music]
three why does the quality of sound
differ so much in headphones and in the
smartphone speaker well it's all a
matter of size and distance sound is
made by air molecules bumping into each
other and going in waves from the source
to your ears the bigger the sound the
stronger it affects the air and so the
louder and clearer the sound that's
white the tiny speaker in your phone
will never rival those big boxes they
use at concerts or even the speaker in
your TV or laptop headphones on the
other hand are small but still managed
to provide amazing sound that's because
they produce it right into your ear
without the need to cover long distances
between your eardrums and the membrane
and that's why when someone listens to
music in their headphones with poor
isolation you can only hear that
annoying scraping for what is planned
obsolescence it's no secret that
electronic devices are manufactured with
an expert date in mind but it's not evil
corporations deliberately making them
last a very short time so that you buy
new ones every year every part of a
gadget has its own service time and it
makes sense to take the part with a
shortest life expectancy as a standard
in a smart phone that's normally the
battery it has a limited number of
recharge cycles after which it stops
working as more and more phones are made
with non-removable batteries you can't
simply replace it so manufacturers make
all other parts of the phone match the
battery's lifetime speaking of which
five why are there non removable
batteries at all well technically there
are but they're swiftly becoming history
first of all the conventional
rectangular battery made the phone bulky
and let's face it quite unappealing the
larger the phone the more juice it has
so this design was necessary for the
phone to work long hours secondly the
back lid had to be made of plastic for
easier removal and it didn't fit the new
trend for metal and glass some
manufacturers solved the problem but
that wasn't all yet yet another issue
was that an extra layer of protection
for the removable battery required
additional space and that's a luxury
given the miniature size of a phone with
a built in battery this space could be
used for cool additional features like
wireless charging for example and
finally the rectangle shape was only
needed for easy removal
modern batteries can use any shape
instead and sometimes they look quite
weird step design or l-shape are just a
few examples of that six
how can a smart phone not overheat
without a cooling device PCs and laptops
all have extra coolers to keep them well
cool
smartphones on the other hand can
operate without any additional fans
their insides are built so they can
withstand a certain range of
temperatures if your phone doesn't get
into the environment that's either too
cold or too hot it should be okay even
if you use it to its full potential
the phone casing is also a kind of a
natural coolant that absorbs heat from
the inside and lets it go to the outside
and finally the smartphone parts that
generate heat do it in much less copious
amounts than a laptop would normally it
just wouldn't be enough to overheat a
phone but you still can if you try hard
enough
I'd recommend not doing that though
seven how can a compass work inside a
phone if there's a magnet in it - well
as you probably know the speaker needs a
magnet to work and that should throw the
compass off-balance but it doesn't
happen because the phone's compass is
adjusted to ignore everything that's
built inside the phone manufacturers
warned though that any external magnetic
force can still make it go crazy so if
you bring another magnet close to the
phone its compass will show a wrong
direction the same can happen if you
walk through the security metal detector
or put your phone close to an MRI
machine which is also ill-advised
eight-way don't smartphones have
built-in FM radio actually they do every
smartphone there is on the market has a
built-in radio chip they can tune into
AM and FM radio but the catch is that
it's locked and can't be unlocked
without the service providers and
manufacturers say-so
there's much debate about this and in
earlier smartphones the chip was
unlocked by default so you could listen
to radio and still can if you buy such a
phone as much as you want it today
providers argue that consumers don't
need or want the radio on their phones
they prefer to stream podcasts and news
feeds from the internet instead well
what do you do to listen to music and
news radio or the web let me know down
in the comments 9 how do smart phones
know how much charge they have left
a smartphone battery has a certain
voltage range that is tested at the
production stage during these tests
engineers detect the voltage at the
battery's maximum capacity and check it
all the way down to zero then they
convert these numbers into percentage
and program the phone to show it on his
screen this way the phone will know that
for example four point three volts
corresponds to 100%
while two point seven volts are 1% by
the way the older the battery the
sharper its charge drops to zero if
you've ever seen your phone turning off
while still at four percent now you know
why ten how come smart phones acquire a
GPS signal much faster than dedicated
GPS equipment if you have a car with a
GPS navigator you probably know how long
it takes to connect to the satellites
and give you your location if you turn
on GPS on your smart phone though it'll
only take a few seconds to adjust and
show you where you are it happens
because a smart phone can use different
networks to help it locate itself such
as cellular or wireless networks
dedicated GPS equipment on the other
hand can only rely on satellites so if
for some reason all the cellular and
Wi-Fi networks suddenly shut down your
phone will take as much time to connect
to GPS as your car and a little bonus
why do browser pages sometimes load in a
weird way
only to correct themselves in a few
moments well we've all seen it you load
a page on your smartphone or PC it first
appears very strange and basic like it
would look perhaps in the 1990s and then
it kind of reloads and finally appears
as it should it's called a flash of
unstyled content or fo you see this
happens especially when you visit the
web site for the first time so it
doesn't yet have cookies to help you
load it faster the flash is the content
of the website seen in your browser
default styles it appears because the
browser hasn't managed to load the
stylesheet of the website in time but it
still hurries to deliver let's thank it
for that I guess hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life